Ruey-Shiann Shyu \

Fatema Nassar\
Paper 1 (Robotic Artist)\
Performing Robots

I have always been fascinated by mechanics. We see mechanics in everything we use, from a door opening to a car driving and even a bird flapping its wings, yet not many know much about it. One can say a lot about the mechanics present in everyday life, about its uses and importance. About the magic it makes possible or the simple things, we don’t even notice anymore. Connecting art to anything helps build a bridge between a world we understand and another we know little about. That is what I saw in Ruey-Shiann Shyu’s “Dream Box”. A box that doesn’t do much managed to get me intrigued enough to open his website and explore. 

As of today, Shyu is close to being 60 years old. Born into a poor family in Taipei(White Rabbit Collection), and went to an art school in his late teenage years, it seems that he slowly learned his passion for what we can see in his work today. He received his first award in 1998 after graduating from Aix-en-Provence Art College in France. He began exploring art using moving parts during his first journey in France(3), and it did not stop there. As of today, Shyu is known for creating machine-like artwork to express his various ideas and feelings towards life, memory, and issues concerning the environment, society, and politics (Art News). The awards Shyu received, the works he did, and the exhibitions he participated in, show the passion he had for his work, and his constant desire to show his opinion without using words. 

Shyu’s website had no explanations for his work so I did not want to find those explanations from an exhibition’s resource or a source that doesn’t directly belong to him. However, as I am currently writing in his honor, I had to have a background, even if little, of what his work meant, to make sure the interpretation I convey is of a realistic background. In the next paragraphs, I will talk about the works of his that piqued my interest, my interpretation of these works, and what the purpose of these works was as what was found online. 

Firstly, I will talk about the Dream Box I mentioned earlier. When I first saw the picture of the dream box it piqued my interest, but I didn’t understand what it does. I wanted to understand more about what it does. I watched a series of videos ([First video linked](https://youtu.be/mr4ii2ZHtJg?si=Feh0byNt8wCTSO2y)) of the Dream Box working and I was more confused and intrigued than earlier. The box did nothing. Had no purpose. No use. It was a box with different forms of gears outside that moved. But then I thought, what if that reflected us not seeing the mechanics of what they do? What if that was about reflecting the idea of useless gears to show that they are used in our daily lives for more important matters than we think? The official page of the museum that displayed this piece put it under a collection of Useless machine art pieces. They reflected the idea of the exhibition to the words of Aristotle when he said and we forgot, “To praise inutility, thus, has been a reaction to the materialistic values promoted by capitalist society, which has been criticized for its lack of moral and spiritual values”(Bronx Museum). When I saw the box I imagined it must be used for something but it wasn’t, exactly as they intended it to be. A person expects a machine to do something and an art piece to send a message. From what I understand for this collection, it was intended. It was intentional in a way a double negative makes a positive, an art piece that doesn’t make sense alongside a machine that doesn’t do anything sends a message and opens the box for a large room of interpretation. For an artist to send a message like that in such a simple piece of art is something that I find admirable. 

Another art piece of his that I liked was called, [Eight Drunken Immortals](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0QnHOSRW9NU). This piece encompassed 8 robots walking on shopping cart wheels, drawing random art lines on the floor. While I found this piece interesting because it related two things I find deep interest in, generative art (which is usually in a digital form) and robot mechanics, I found the idea of relating art creation to a “drunk entity” fascinating, because I have always related art to purity, and the mind, in its drunken stage, is pure of the limitations enforced by human society. What Shyu was referring to was a tradition of drunken calligraphy in China to create unrepeatable calligraphy in a sober time(Dangrove). A story from his memory, or experience. Maybe something he heard about, reflected in a piece of technology that creates un-understandable beautiful art. 

Shyu has many more art pieces with many different stories and morals he finds and shares through his pieces. He is known for making art that sends a message, that has a meaning, or tells a story he relates to (taac). I believe that he achieved what many small artists dream of. He managed to do what he liked, explore mediums, and send messages, and his last show/exhibition was in 2016, around the time he was 50 years old. As I hope this will not be his last show, I am sure that deep down, he is one whose career steps I would not mind following.


CITATIONS: \
[Ruey-Shiann Shyu’s Biography](https://www.rueyshyu.com/biography/)\
[Ruey-Shiann Shyu Artist statement](https://www.rueyshyu.com/)\
[white Rabbit Collection](https://whiterabbitcollection.org/artist/shyu-ruey-shiann/)\
[Art News](https://www.artnews.com/art-in-america/features/shyu-ruey-shiann-56587/)\
[Taak](http://www.taac-us.org/shyurueyshiann/ )\
[Dream Box -> The Bronks museum](https://bronxmuseum.org/exhibition/useless-machines-for-dreaming/)\
[dangrove](https://explore.dangrove.org/objects/960)\
